OSDOCS#8773: Agent configuration reference assembly (#69292)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/agent-configuration-parameters.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_with_agent_based_installer/installation-config-parameters-agent.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="agent-configuration-parameters_{context}"]
= Available Agent configuration parameters
The following tables specify the required and optional Agent configuration parameters that you can set as part of the Agent-based installation process.

These values are specified in the `agent-config.yaml` file.

[NOTE]
====
These settings are used for installation only, and cannot be modified after installation.
====

[id="agent-configuration-parameters-required_{context}"]
== Required configuration parameters

Required Agent configuration parameters are described in the following table:

.Required parameters
[cols=".^2l,.^3,.^5a",options="header"]
|====
|Parameter|Description|Values

|apiVersion:
|The API version for the `agent-config.yaml` content.
The current version is v1.

> The installation program may also support older API versions.

Reviewer: The current - and the only version defined so far - is` v1beta1`

|List of hostnames or IP addresses.

|hosts:
|Host configuration.
An optional list of hosts.
The number of hosts defined must not exceed the total number of hosts defined in the `install-config.yaml` file, which is the sum of the values of the `compute.replicas` and `controlPlane.replicas` parameters.
|An array of host configuration objects.

|hosts:
  hostname:
|Hostname.
Overrides the hostname obtained from either the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) or a reverse DNS lookup.
Each host must have a unique hostname supplied by one of these methods, although configuring a hostname through this parameter is optional.
|(needs accepted/valid values)

|hosts:
  interfaces:
|Provides a table of the name and MAC address mappings for the interfaces on the host.
If a `NetworkConfig` section is provided in the `agent-config.yaml`, this table must be included and the values must match the mappings provided in the `NetworkConfig` section.
|An array of host configuration objects.

|hosts:
  interfaces:
    name:
|The name of an interface on the host.

> |(needs accepted/valid values)

Reviewer: Interface names aren't really checked for validity so don't need to list valid values here.

Author: If a string of characters is accepted in general, I can just put "String" here. Let me know if that's not accurate.

Reviewer: Yes that's fine

|hosts:
  interfaces:
    macAddress:
|The MAC address of an interface on the host.
|A MAC address such as the following example: `00-B0-D0-63-C2-26`

|hosts:
  rootDeviceHints:
|Enables provisioning of the {op-system-first} image to a particular device.
It examines the devices in the order it discovers them, and compares the discovered values with the hint values.
It uses the first discovered device that matches the hint value.
This is the device that the operating system will be written on during installation.

> |(needs accepted/valid values)

Reviewer: I don't think need to list accepted/valid values here, it should just refer to other section in the docs that describes rootDeviceHints e.g. https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/installing/installing_bare_metal_ipi/ipi-install-installation-workflow.html#root-device-hints_ipi-install-installation-workflow

Author: I still think there might be a need to define the type of data that should be used with this parameter (and all others, even if we don't want to specify which specific values are accepted). Would this be an accurate entry to include here?

`A dictionary of key-value pairs. For more information, see Root device hints.`

With a link to the section you provide in your comment

Reviewer: Sure

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_with_agent_based_installer/installation-config-parameters-agent.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="agent-configuration-parameters_{context}"]
= Available Agent configuration parameters
The following tables specify the required and optional Agent configuration parameters that you can set as part of the Agent-based installation process.

These values are specified in the `agent-config.yaml` file.

[NOTE]
====
These settings are used for installation only, and cannot be modified after installation.
====

[id="agent-configuration-parameters-required_{context}"]
== Required configuration parameters

Required Agent configuration parameters are described in the following table:

.Required parameters
[cols=".^2l,.^3,.^5a",options="header"]
|====
|Parameter|Description|Values

|apiVersion:
|The API version for the `agent-config.yaml` content.
The current version is `v1beta1`.
The installation program may also support older API versions.
|String

|metadata:
|Kubernetes resource `ObjectMeta`, from which only the `name` parameter is consumed.
|Object

|metadata:
  name:

> |The name of the cluster.

Reviewer 2: The parameter `metadata.name` is optional; however, when included in the agent-config file, it takes precedence over the value specified in the install-config file.

Reviewer 2: If included in the agent-config file, the metadata.name parameter neither takes precedence nor serves as a required or optional setting; rather, it is simply ignored, and the value specified in the install-config file is used.
@bfournie please confirm.

Reviewer: The metadata name and namespace are required. From the agent-config.yaml defintion: https://github.com/openshift/installer/blob/master/pkg/types/agent/agent_config_type.go#L19-L20

However they are not validated or used. As Manoj indicated, the fields are ignored

Author: I'll add a sentence to this entry stating "The value entered in the `agent-config.yaml` file is ignored, and the instead the value specified in the `install-config.yaml` file is used."

Let me know if that sounds right, or if I need to add to/change that sentence.

Reviewer: That sounds right, although I did discover that if the install-config.yaml is ALSO not supplied that a default cluster name of `agent-cluster` will be used, see https://github.com/openshift/installer/blob/master/pkg/asset/agent/installconfig.go#L253-L258

Author: @bfournie just out of curiosity, how is this value a required parameter in both the agent-config and install-config files if the installation proceeds without them specified? I'm not familiar with OCP configuration, does "required" not mean "necessary for the installation and thus the installer will terminate with an error without this value"?

Reviewer 2: @bfournie If the value is not specified in the install-config, the following error message will be generated: "FATAL failed to fetch Agent Manifests: failed to load asset "Install Config": invalid install-config configuration: metadata.name: Invalid value: "": a lowercase RFC 1123 subdomain must consist of lower case alphanumeric characters, '-' or '.', and must start and end with an alphanumeric character"

Reviewer: For the install-config.yaml, if it's provided the metadata.name must be included. However install-config.yaml is optional for the agent installer (when using just the ZTP manifests). In that case the cluster name will be set to `agent-cluster`

Author: Proposed sentence to add to `metadata.name` descriptions for both agent-config and install-config: 

"When you do not provide `metadata.name` through either the `install-config.yaml` or `agent-config.yaml` files, for example when you use only ZTP manifests, the cluster name will be set to `agent-cluster`."

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_with_agent_based_installer/installation-config-parameters-agent.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="agent-configuration-parameters_{context}"]

> = Available Agent configuration parameters

Reviewer 3: missing blank line after header?

Author: Good catch, thank you

The following tables specify the required and optional Agent configuration parameters that you can set as part of the Agent-based installation process.

These values are specified in the `agent-config.yaml` file.

[NOTE]
====
These settings are used for installation only, and cannot be modified after installation.
====

[id="agent-configuration-parameters-required_{context}"]
== Required configuration parameters

Required Agent configuration parameters are described in the following table:

.Required parameters
[cols=".^2l,.^3,.^5a",options="header"]
|====
|Parameter|Description|Values

|apiVersion:
|The API version for the `agent-config.yaml` content.
The current version is `v1beta1`.

> The installation program may also support older API versions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The installation program might also support older API versions.
```
See [IBM Style](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#m)

|String

|metadata:
|Kubernetes resource `ObjectMeta`, from which only the `name` parameter is consumed.
|Object

|metadata:
  name:
|The name of the cluster.
DNS records for the cluster are all subdomains of `{{.metadata.name}}.{{.baseDomain}}`.

> The value entered in the `agent-config.yaml` file is ignored, and the instead the value specified in the `install-config.yaml` file is used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The value entered in the `agent-config.yaml` file is ignored, and instead the value specified in the `install-config.yaml` file is used.
```

> When you do not provide `metadata.name` through either the `install-config.yaml` or `agent-config.yaml` files, for example when you use only ZTP manifests, the cluster name will be set to `agent-cluster`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you do not provide `metadata.name` through either the `install-config.yaml` or `agent-config.yaml` files, for example when you use only ZTP manifests, the cluster name is set to `agent-cluster`.
```

|String of lowercase letters and hyphens (`-`), such as `dev`.
|====

[id="agent-configuration-parameters-optional_{context}"]
== Optional configuration parameters

Optional Agent configuration parameters are described in the following table:

.Optional parameters
[cols=".^2l,.^4,.^4a",options="header"]
|====
|Parameter|Description|Values

|rendezvousIP:
|The IP address of the node that performs the bootstrapping process as well as running the `assisted-service` component.
You must provide the rendezvous IP address when you do not specify at least one host's IP address in the `networkConfig` parameter.
If this address is not provided, one IP address is selected from the provided hosts' `networkConfig`.
|IPv4 or IPv6 address.

|bootArtifactsBaseURL:

> |The URL of the server to upload PXE assets to when using the Agent-based Installer to generate an iPXE script.

Reviewer 3: Not sure if PXE should be spelled out at first use or is a term not normally spelled out.

Author: I'm not sure either, but I can spell it out here anyways

For more information, see "Preparing PXE assets for {product-title}".
|String.

|additionalNTPSources:
|A list of Network Time Protocol (NTP) sources to be added to all cluster hosts, which are added to any NTP sources that are configured through other means.
|List of hostnames or IP addresses.

|hosts:
|Host configuration.
An optional list of hosts.
The number of hosts defined must not exceed the total number of hosts defined in the `install-config.yaml` file, which is the sum of the values of the `compute.replicas` and `controlPlane.replicas` parameters.
|An array of host configuration objects.

|hosts:
  hostname:
|Hostname.
Overrides the hostname obtained from either the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) or a reverse DNS lookup.
Each host must have a unique hostname supplied by one of these methods, although configuring a hostname through this parameter is optional.
|String.

|hosts:
  interfaces:
|Provides a table of the name and MAC address mappings for the interfaces on the host.

> If a `NetworkConfig` section is provided in the `agent-config.yaml`, this table must be included and the values must match the mappings provided in the `NetworkConfig` section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If a `NetworkConfig` section is provided in the `agent-config.yaml` file, this table must be included and the values must match the mappings provided in the `NetworkConfig` section.
```

|An array of host configuration objects.

|hosts:
  interfaces:
    name:
|The name of an interface on the host.
|String.

|hosts:
  interfaces:
    macAddress:
|The MAC address of an interface on the host.
|A MAC address such as the following example: `00-B0-D0-63-C2-26`

|hosts:
  rootDeviceHints:
|Enables provisioning of the {op-system-first} image to a particular device.

> It examines the devices in the order it discovers them, and compares the discovered values with the hint values.

Reviewer 3: It = The installation program ?

It uses the first discovered device that matches the hint value.

> This is the device that the operating system will be written on during installation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is the device that the operating system is written on during installation.
```

|A dictionary of key-value pairs.
For more information, see "Root device hints" in the "Setting up the environment for an OpenShift installation" page.

|hosts:
  rootDeviceHints:
    deviceName:

> |The name of the device the {op-system} image will be provisioned to.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|The name of the device the {op-system} image is provisioned to.
```

|The name of the cluster.
DNS records for the cluster are all subdomains of `{{.metadata.name}}.{{.baseDomain}}`.
The value entered in the `agent-config.yaml` file is ignored, and the instead the value specified in the `install-config.yaml` file is used.
When you do not provide `metadata.name` through either the `install-config.yaml` or `agent-config.yaml` files, for example when you use only ZTP manifests, the cluster name will be set to `agent-cluster`.
|String of lowercase letters and hyphens (`-`), such as `dev`.
|====

[id="agent-configuration-parameters-optional_{context}"]
== Optional configuration parameters

Optional Agent configuration parameters are described in the following table:

.Optional parameters
[cols=".^2l,.^4,.^4a",options="header"]
|====
|Parameter|Description|Values

|rendezvousIP:
|The IP address of the node that performs the bootstrapping process as well as running the `assisted-service` component.
You must provide the rendezvous IP address when you do not specify at least one host's IP address in the `networkConfig` parameter.
If this address is not provided, one IP address is selected from the provided hosts' `networkConfig`.
|IPv4 or IPv6 address.

> IPv6 is supported only on bare metal platforms.

Reviewer 2: It is also supported on vSphere platforms.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing_with_agent_based_installer/installation-config-parameters-agent.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="agent-configuration-parameters_{context}"]
= Available Agent configuration parameters
The following tables specify the required and optional Agent configuration parameters that you can set as part of the Agent-based installation process.

These values are specified in the `agent-config.yaml` file.

[NOTE]
====
After installation, you cannot modify these parameters in the `agent-config.yaml` file.
====

[id="agent-configuration-parameters-required_{context}"]
== Required configuration parameters

Required Agent configuration parameters are described in the following table:

.Required parameters
[cols=".^2l,.^3,.^5a",options="header"]
|====
|Parameter|Description|Values

|apiVersion:
|The API version for the `agent-config.yaml` content.
The current version is v1.
The installation program may also support older API versions.
|String

|kind:
|(needs info)

> |(needs info)

Author: Sounds good, I can delete this parameter

|String of lowercase letters and hyphens (`-`), such as `dev`.
|====

[id="agent-configuration-parameters-optional_{context}"]
== Optional configuration parameters

Optional Agent configuration parameters are described in the following table:

.Optional parameters
[cols=".^2l,.^3,.^5a",options="header"]
|====
|Parameter|Description|Values

|rendezvousIP:
|The IP address of the node that performs the bootstrapping process as well as running the `assisted-service` component.
You must provide the rendezvous IP address when you do not specify at least one host's IP address in the `networkConfig` parameter.
If this address is not provided, one IP address is selected from the provided hosts' `networkConfig`.
|IPv4 or IPv6 address.
IPv6 is supported only on bare metal platforms.

|bootArtifactsBaseURL:
|(needs info)
|(needs info)

|additionalNTPSources:
|(needs info)
|(needs info)

|hosts:
|Host configuration.
The number of hosts defined must not exceed the total number of hosts defined in the `install-config.yaml` file, which is the sum of the values of the `compute.replicas` and `controlPlane.replicas` parameters.
|An array of host configuration objects.

> |hosts:

Author: This is the new format that the install config reference is being represented as. Previously the format would be `hosts.interfaces.macAddress`, however this would make the table cells really wide and practically unreadable in some cases.

  hostname:
|Host name.
Overrides the hostname obtained from either the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) or a reverse DNS lookup.
Each host must have a unique hostname supplied by one of these methods.

> |(needs info)

Reviewer: This seems reasonable, could also note that the hostname supplied here is optional.

|hosts:
  interfaces:
|(needs info)

> |(needs info)

Reviewer: The interface table provides a name and mac address mapping for the interfaces on the host. The settings must match the configuration in the NetworkConfig section. This table is optional, but if the NetworkConfig section is included it must also e provided.

|hosts:
  interfaces:
    name:
|(needs info)
|(needs info)

|hosts:
  interfaces:
    macAddress:
|(needs info)
|(needs info)

|hosts:
  rootDeviceHints:
|Enables provisioning of the {op-system-first} image to a particular device.
It examines the devices in the order it discovers them, and compares the discovered values with the hint values.
It uses the first discovered device that matches the hint value.

> |(needs info)

Reviewer: Maybe in addition state that this is the device that the OS will be written during installation.

|hosts:
  rootDeviceHints:
    deviceName:
|(needs info)
|(needs info)

|hosts:

>   networkConfig:

Reviewer: The networkConfig field is the host network definition. It must match the Network Management API defined in https://nmstate.io/.

|(needs info)
|(needs info)

> 

Reviewer: I think all of the fields below can be removed. The NetworkConfig must match the fields in https://nmstate.io/, its not necessary to redefine them here.

Author: Sounds good, I'll delete these remaining NetworkConfig parameters
